SOURCE: Australian Embassy Belgrade — Direct Aid Program
URL: https://serbia.embassy.gov.au/
FETCHED: 2026-09-17T16:28:20.870Z
TITLE: Home

=== MAIN PAGE ===
Australian Embassy

Serbia

Serbia, North Macedonia and Montenegro

Skip to main content

Text size

Toggle navigation

About us

Home

About us

Australians

Services for Australians-Consular Services

Connecting with Australia

Study in Australia

Travelling to Australia

Doing business with Australia

Showcasing Australia

About Australia

News and media

Direct Aid Program

Resources

Visa and citizenship

Visas and citizenship

Contact us

Contact us

Welcome to the Australian Embassy in Belgrade

Welcome to the website of the Australian Embassy in Belgrade. Here you will find information on how to contact us , advice on the range of consular and passport services available to Australians, information on visas and citizenship arrangements, and general information about Australia.

The Australian Ambassador to Serbia is H.E. Mr Peter Truswell . The Australian Embassy in Belgrade is accredited to the Republic of Serbia , Republic of North Macedonia and Montenegro .

If you wish to learn more about Australian foreign, trade and development policy or our bilateral relationships we encourage you to explore the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade website .

If you are an Austral

--- relevant lines ---
Australian Direct Aid Program 2026-27 - Call for Concept Notes
The Australian Embassy in Belgrade is pleased to announce a Call for Concept Notes for projects that will be supported through our Direct Aid Program (DAP) in the financial year 2026-27.
DAP is a flexible small grants program funded from Australia's aid budget and managed by the Australian Embassy in Belgrade. The program supports locally led projects that deliver practical and tangible outcomes to local communities.
Applicants may submit their application for a single project up to the amount of 10,000 EUR.
Who can apply?
DAP funding is available to local community groups, non-profit and civil society organisations and NGOs engaged in development activities in Serbia, North Macedonia and Montenegro.
What activities are eligible for DAP support?
Projects must be self-contained, with a timeline beginning no earlier than 1 December 2026 and concluding no later than 31 December 2027.
Post will favour the strongest project proposals, which demonstrate a clear theory of change and sustainability, focusing on priority thematic areas.
How to apply
This round will be opened from 8 September to 4 October 2026 .
Interested applicants should complete the attached Concept Note and send it to [email protected] by 4 October , with the subject header "DAP Concept Note, Name of Organisation [Country]".
After submission of your application
Only shortlisted applicants will be contacted between four to six weeks after the application deadline. They will then be invited to submit a full application through the Smarty Grants system.
We look forward receiving your applications.
Please note that fees for Australian passports and other travel documents will increase from 1 January 2026.
The Social Security Agreement between Australia and the Republic of Serbia commenced on 1 February 2024.
The Department of Home Affairs (the Department) has introduced 100 per cent online lodgement for Visitor visas (subclass 600). Paper applications will not be accepted as valid for lodgment:
All applicants applying for a Visitor visa (subclass 600) in Australia in the Tourist stream must lodge their application online via ImmiAccount.
How can I apply for a Visitor visa online?
ImmiAccount is an online service that provides a simple, efficient and convenient way to apply for a visa. You can create an ImmiAccount, select the visa type you want to apply for, attach documents, submit family applications together and pay the application fee online at https://online.immi.gov.au
You can also get help from a family member, friend or migration agent to submit your application if required.
Australian Visa Application Centres outside Australia may also offer assisted online lodgement services, depending on local country arrangements.
Information and guidance about applying online and using ImmiAccount is available on the Department's website at:
https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online
