SOURCE: BIRN — Balkan Investigative Reporting Network
URL: https://birn.eu.com/programmes/
FETCHED: 2026-09-18T03:39:40.707Z
TITLE: Programmes Archives - BIRN

=== MAIN PAGE ===
Skip to content

BIRN

Balkan Investigative Reporting Network

Menu

Home

About BIRN

Programmes

People

Awards

Donors

Partners

Outputs

BIRN Network Meetings

Network

BIRN Hub

BIRN Ltd.

BIRN Albania

BIRN Bosnia and Herzegovina

BIRN Kosovo

BIRN Macedonia

BIRN Serbia

BIRN Romania

News and Events

Pressures and Attacks

Vacancies

Contact us

Category: Programmes

Media Innovation Europe: Towards a Resilient Public-Interest Media Ecosystem

BIRN Hub

The project focuses on strengthening independent public-interest media across Europe by supporting innovation, audience engagement and revenue diversification. Through training, coaching, grants, mentoring, hackathons and networking, media outlets will develop more resilient editorial, operational and business models, engage their communities and respond more effectively to digital disruption.

Summary

Media Innovation Europe: Towards a Resilient Public-Interest Media Ecosystem is a two-year project implemented from June 2026 to May 2028. It aims to help independent media outlets preserve their watchdog role, promote transparency and contribute to stronger democratic institutions.

The project combines financial support, c

--- relevant lines ---
BIRN will lead the audience-engaged journalism component. Two calls for proposals will provide grants to media outlets from the six Western Balkan and four Visegrad countries. Selected outlets will receive access to BIRN’s BE-Engaged digital tool, as well as training, technical assistance and editorial mentoring. The tool will help newsrooms crowdsource information from citizens and produce stories of local and cross-border importance, including content relevant to women, young people and marginalised communities.
Two grant calls for media outlets in the Western Balkans and Visegrad countries.
Grant funding for audience-engaged journalism and content production.
Author Aleksandra Vrbica Posted on July 21, 2026 July 22, 2026 Categories Programmes Tags Hub
BEAM – Building and Engaging European Audiences through a Pan-European Independent Media Hub – is a two-year project implemented from March 2026 to February 2028. Coordinated by ARTE, it brings together 15 media organisations from 11 European countries to strengthen the European public sphere and improve citizens’ understanding of European policies and shared challenges.
Author Aleksandra Vrbica Posted on July 21, 2026 July 22, 2026 Categories Programmes Tags Hub
Creating occasions for the intergenerational exchange of European values, such as democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, the consortium draws on Europe’s 20 th -century experience and addresses the fragility of democracy and continuous need for people to engage and defend democratic institutions and values. The project also engages experienced journalists in intergenerational transfer of professional standards together with aspiring journalists from all over Europe.
The project promotes remembrance, education and intergenerational dialogue about various democratic transitions in Europe as processes that restored the fundamental right of freedom of expression and carry important lessons for civil resilience and democracy today .
Author Aleksandra Vrbica Posted on July 2, 2026 July 2, 2026 Categories Programmes Tags Hub
UN Women through EU 4 Gender Equality: Women’s Economic Empowerment and Ending Violence against Women project, funded by European Commission
Author Aleksandra Vrbica Posted on June 5, 2026 June 5, 2026 Categories Programmes Tags Hub
Considering the emerging situation regarding the labor rights and the partner’s large impact on the field of labor rights, the project aims to enhance the role of the Labor Rights Consortium’s (LRC) to be a collective voice of the workers. The proposed action will strive to influence key sectors/cross-sectoral reforms, raise capacities of media literacy and improved access to information for all with a special emphasis on vulnerable groups, strengthen civil society participation and activism through LRC’s capacity building, advocacy campaigns and investigative reporting through the Kallxo.com platform and a sub-granting scheme.
Author Aleksandra Vrbica Posted on October 9, 2025 Categories Programmes Tags Kosovo
Awarding grants to 15 journalists and media professionals, including 5 grants for women journalists and 5 grants for journalists from non-majority communities, that will investigate stories directly addressing disinformation.
In cooperation with the Association of Journalists of Kosovo, awarding three Journalism Awards for best stories addressing disinformation and fact-checking.
Author Aleksandra Vrbica Posted on October 9, 2025 October 20, 2025 Categories Programmes Tags Kosovo
The Matra and Human Rights Fund
The project addresses the lack of trust between communities, civil society, and law enforcement in northern Kosovo, and the systemic underrepresentation of women in security institutions. It fosters community engagement, strengthens gender inclusion, and promotes inclusive dialogues with the K-Serb community including women to ensure their concerns shape security policies. These issues, identified in Kosovo’s National Strategy on Gender Equality and European Commission reports (2023), undermine public safety, trust, and institutional resilience as well as enhance accountability and community-police relations.
Author Aleksandra Vrbica Posted on October 7, 2025 December 30, 2025 Categories Programmes Tags Kosovo
Through the development of the Social Audit program, BIRN and D+ aim to build the capacities of six local organizations and 120 community activists to identify, monitor, and advocate for the improvement of 16 projects funded by the Municipal Performance Grant, by applying the Social Audit methodology.
Author Aleksandra Vrbica Posted on October 7, 2025 Categories Programmes Tags Kosovo
