SOURCE: Swiss Embassy Serbia — cooperation programme
URL: https://www.eda.admin.ch/belgrade
FETCHED: 2026-09-17T16:26:09.023Z
TITLE: Embassy of Switzerland in Serbia

=== MAIN PAGE ===
Embassy of Switzerland in Serbia

Switzerland and Serbia

The Federal Council

The Federal Council (admin)

Federal Chancellery FC

Federal Department of Foreign Affairs FDFA

Federal Department of Home Affairs FDHA

Federal Department of Justice and Police FDJP

Federal Department of Defence, Civil Protection and Sport DDPS

Federal Department of Finance FDF

Federal Department of Economic Affairs, Education and Research EAER

Federal Department of the Environment, Transport, Energy and Communications DETEC

FDFA

Switzerland’s foreign policy

Switzerland’s policy on Europe

Development and cooperation

Switzerland’s contribution to the enlarged EU

About Switzerland

Agenda 2030

Switzerland around the world

Afghanistan

Albania

Algeria

Andorra

Angola

Antigua and Barbuda

Argentina

Armenia

Australia

Austria

Azerbaijan

Bahamas

Bahrain

Bangladesh

Barbados

Belarus

Belgium

Belize

Benin

Bhutan

Bolivia

Bosnia and Herzegovina

Botswana

Brazil

Brunei Darussalam

Bulgaria

Burkina Faso

Burundi

Cambodia

Cameroon

Canada

Cape Verde

Central African Republic

Chad

Chile

China

Colombia

Comoros

Democratic Republic of Congo

Republic of Congo

Cook Islands

Costa 

--- relevant lines ---
Visa application procedure and applicable regulations in Switzerland
Contact the responsible Swiss representation or consulate when you want to register or unregister as a resident, when you need a new passport, have moved or wish to apply for citizenship. The entire selection of services offered can be found in the dropdown menu to the right. The contact details of the responsible Swiss representation are shown on the corresponding page.
Information on requirements to enter Switzerland and to take residence, procedure to submit an entry visa application, visa application form and fees
New address ( effective Tuesday, 14 July 2026 ):
Please note that the last day for receiving customers at our current location is Thursday, July 9, 2026. From Tuesday, July 14, 2026, we will welcome our customers to our new shared premises at the address mentioned above.
Since 10 April 2026, the Entry/Exit System (EES) has been fully operational. The collection of travellers’ data is now fully implemented at all external border crossing points of the Schengen area. For more information, please consult the official EU website dedicated to the Entry/Exit System (EES).
ETIAS (European Travel Information and Authorisation System) is an electronic travel authorisation required for visa-exempt nationals wishing to travel to 30 European countries for a short stay. It is not a visa, but a pre-travel screening system used to verify travellers’ information before entry. ETIAS is not yet in force; its launch is planned for the last quarter of 2026. For more information, please consult the official EU website dedicated to ETIAS .
Last update 07.07.2026
