SOURCE: Craig Newmark Philanthropies
URL: https://craignewmarkphilanthropies.org/
FETCHED: 2026-09-17T16:28:23.202Z
TITLE: Home

=== MAIN PAGE ===
craig newmark philanthropies

About

Craig Newmark

Board Memberships

Cybersecurity

Veterans & Military Families

Promoting the Truth

Apply

Newsroom

Contact

I'm an old-school nerd helping to protect the people who protect our country.

Okay, what I do is find people who are really good at their jobs, and who can tolerate my sense of humor. I provide them with resources, and then get outta their way.

military families and vets ( new grants portal here )

#CyberCivilDefense #cybersecurity

promoting the truth

pigeon rescue

(I retired from craigslist a few years ago.)

Please follow me on:
Mastodon: @craignewmark@mastodon.social
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/craignewmark
Bluesky: @craignewmark.bsky.social
Twitter: @craignewmark

What’s the deal with Craig? Newsroom

News Highlights

In The News

Craigslist founder Craig Newmark: ‘Good philanthropy never goes out of style’

April 23rd, 2026

— eJP

In The News

Craigslist Founder Teams Up With a Muppet to Persuade People to Stop Clicking on Scams

June 1st, 2026

In The News

The founder of Craigslist has given away half a billion dollars. He fears for an America where generosity is trolled

June 17th, 2026

— The Inde

--- relevant lines ---
July 8th, 2026
August 10th, 2026
March 30th, 2026
© Craig Newmark 2026

=== https://craignewmarkphilanthropies.org/apply ===
craig newmark philanthropies

About

Craig Newmark

Board Memberships

Cybersecurity

Veterans & Military Families

Promoting the Truth

Apply

Newsroom

Contact

Apply for a Grant

Craig Newmark Philanthropies Ongoing Support for Stuff that Matters

Thanks for your interest in craig newmark philanthropies!

CNP operates in a manner generously described as "unique," evolving as needed, trying to avoid the slowness and red tape elsewhere.

However, we really do need to get better at due diligence, particularly concerning communications and collaboration.

Sometimes we’ll invite informal proposals, but final proposals (please look at our priorities ) for funding must be submitted below, with instructions, unless you're supporting military families or vets, in which case please look here .

Some guidelines on submissions…

Deadline: CNP reviews proposals on a rolling basis, and releases contributions for multi-year efforts annually based on successful progress which also focuses on the effectiveness of communications and collaboration.

Format/Length: Less is more. Please balance an informal approach with brevity and specificity as you can throughout. Heavily polished presentations an

--- relevant lines ---
Short overview of your plan with funding request
How will you evaluate your plan’s success, if it is funded?
How will you collaborate with other grantees, like the Take 9 cybersecurity campaign and the cyber civil defense organizations, Bob Woodruff Foundation, or Blue Star Families?
Please describe your fundraising plan for sustainability, including evidence of your progress toward securing support for your cybersecurity clinic from other funders. This can include institutional support.
We apologize in advance that we can't review and fund every request. If we plan to support your nonprofit, we will follow up with you.
Application Steps:
Submit form
Grant amount requested
We were invited to apply
An IRS determination letter or other qualified proof of public charity status for Potential Grantee (e.g., determination letter pursuant to I.R.C. Sections 501(c)(3) and 509(a)(1) or 509(a)(2))
Proof of active status with the IRS for Potential Grantee (e.g., screen shot of irs.gov confirmation of public charity status)
Proof of active status with the applicable Secretary of State for Potential Grantee (e.g., screen shot of Secretary of State website showing active status or a certificate of good standing).
© Craig Newmark 2026
