SOURCE: ICORN — International Cities of Refuge Network
URL: https://www.icorn.org/
FETCHED: 2026-09-20T12:15:13.394Z
TITLE: Home - ICORN - International Cities of Refuge Network

=== MAIN PAGE ===
About Writers, Artists, Journalists Cities of Refuge Stories Resources Contact Support Us
I am at risk
Menu

Improving conditions for freedom of expression worldwide
ICORN is global network of cities and regions which provides temporary protective residencies for writers, artists, and journalists who face persecution due to their work.
Learn more

92
ICORN Cities of Refuge
in Europe and the Americas

350+
Writers, artists, and journalists
at risk in ICORN residencies

100+
Freedom of expression
events annually

20
Years of advancing
freedom of expression

Stand up for freedom of expression
City Membership in ICORN See the Cities of Refuge >

Latest Stories

‘On the Grass of Exile’: Audio and Poetry Installation Organised by City of Asylum Detroit

Nacka joins ICORN

The seventh annual ICORN workshop at Biskops Arnö Folk High School in Sweden

More Stories >
Safe

Meet writers, artists, and journalists in ICORN residency >

International Cities of Refuge Network
icorn@icorn.org Support Us
About Writers, Artists, Journalists Cities of Refuge Stories Resources Contact

This website does not use cookies or any other tracking technologies.
Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy

=== https://www.icorn.org/donate ===
About Writers, Artists, Journalists Cities of Refuge Stories Resources Contact Support Us
I am at risk
Menu

Support ICORN
Join trusts, foundations, and public and private funders in protecting and promoting freedom of expression worldwide.

Zineb El Rhazoui, Journalist, Writer, Human Rights Activist (Morocco/Paris). During her work at Charlie Hebdo. Photo: Savage Film ‍
Interested in funding ICORN?
Please contact ICORN s Executive Director Helge Lunde.
Email: helge@icorn.org
‍
Donate
If you wish to directly support ICORN, you can make a donation to the organisation.
Any donations go directly to our Emergency Fund which is used to help writers, artists, and journalists who are waiting to arrive in an ICORN City of Refuge.
The Emergency Fund helps cover basic needs such as shelter, food, medicine, communication and transportation means.
‍
Bank account details:
Bank: SPAREBANK 1 SR-BANK
Account IBAN: NO3832013065526
(for Norwegians account # 32013065526)
SWIFT/BIC : SPRONO22
Please mark the donation: ICORN Emergency Fund 710018 .
‍

International Cities of Refuge Network
icorn@icorn.org Support Us
About Writers, Artists, Journalists Cities of Refuge Stories Resources Contact

This we

=== https://www.icorn.org/apply ===
About Writers, Artists, Journalists Cities of Refuge Stories Resources Contact Support Us
I am at risk
Menu

The ICORN Programme
The ICORN programme is a temporary, protective residency programme for writers, journalists and artists who are facing persecution because of their artistic, journalistic or cultural expression, and cannot continue their work or express themselves freely in their home country or region.
Purpose
The purpose of the ICORN residency programme is to provide spaces where writers, journalists and artists can find rest and respite, and continue their work with the right to express ideas and opinions without fear or interference.
‍
The Residency Programme
The standard duration of an ICORN residency is two years. The programme offers a grant covering living costs and accommodation, access to public services in the country/city of residence, and travel expenses related to relocation. The hosting city also supports in building and developing professional networks and opportunities during the residency.
‍
Residents of the ICORN programme are connected in a larger network of human rights defenders, artists, journalists, and cultural and human rights institutions throug

--- relevant lines ---
Applications to ICORN
Due to high influx of applications and requests, we are currently assessing and processing already received applications. Calls for new applications will be announced here.
Our capacity to offer residencies is limited by the capacity, resources and requirements of the ICORN member cities. The number of applications for residencies we receive are far larger than the number of residencies we are able to offer each year. We are therefore not able to offer residencies to all applicants, nor to everyone who have been found eligible for an ICORN residency.
ICORN is free of charge for applicants. ICORN does not have application fees or other fees that are charged to those seeking an ICORN residency. ICORN does not have external consultants who are authorized to charge any fees to advise on the application process. If you are approached by people claiming to represent or act on behalf of ICORN, please inform us at application@icorn.org.
