SOURCE: Norwegian Embassy Belgrade — grants
URL: https://www.norway.no/en/serbia/
FETCHED: 2026-09-22T03:40:21.268Z
TITLE: Norway in Serbia

=== MAIN PAGE ===
Skip to main content

Norway in Serbia
Royal Norwegian Embassy in Belgrade

MENU

Services and information

Regional handling of visitor’s visa and residence permits

Doing business in Norway

Studying in Norway

Working in Norway

Visit Norway

Doing research in Norway

Fees (consular and other)

Norway and Serbia

About the Embassy

News and events

Project cooperation

For nordmenn

Om ambassaden

Reiseinformasjon for Serbia

Statsborgerskap

Honor rt konsulat i Montenegro

Reiseinformasjon for Montenegro

Honur rt konsulat Nord-Makedonia

Reiseinformasjon for Nord-Makedonia

Notarialforretninger

Pass og personnummer

Ekteskap og vigsel

D dsfall

Search

Regional handling of visitor’s visa and residence permits

Doing business with Norway

Studying in Norway

Visit Norway

For Nordmenn

Reiseinformasjon

Lenke til regjeringen.no

Pass og personnummer

Registrer ditt opphold

Om ambassaden

Alle tjenester

News and events

08. Mar 2026

Jedan dan u martu i 364 dana odgovornosti

Obeležavamo još jedan 8. mart u Srbiji, u Norveškoj i širom sveta. To je dan kada se prisećamo borbe žena za prava koja danas često uzimamo zdravo za gotovo, ali i dan kada sebe podsećamo da ravnopravno

--- relevant lines ---
04. Sep 2026
Ambassaden har n ledig praktikantstilling for v ren 2027 fra midten av januar til juni.
The Norwegian Embassy in Ankara, Turkey, is responsible for processing of all applications for visas and residence permits from Serbia and Montenegro, and for residence permits from North-Macedonia.
This website uses cookies. By continuing to browse this webpage or closing this notice, you consent to our usage policy.

=== https://www.norway.no/en/admin-support-page/admin-norway/gdpr2/policy_norway_no/ ===
Skip to main content

Norway
The Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs

Norway

GDPR

Privacy notice for www.norway.no

Privacy notice for www.norway.no

The Norway Portal (norway.no) is the web portal for Norway’s diplomatic and consular missions (embassies, consulates, consulates general and permanent missions).

Responsibility

The Norway Portal ( norway.no ) is the web portal for Norway's diplomatic and consular missions (embassies, consulates, consulates general and permanent missions).

These missions have their own editorial teams who have an independent responsibility for their webpages on no .

The Communication Unit in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs owns and has the overall responsibility for the portal.

The Norwegian Government Security and Service Organisation (DSS) has responsibility for coordinating the operation and development of the portal.

The Director of DSS has overall responsibility for the processing of information that has been collected automatically. This information is needed in order to make the portal easy to use and ensure that it is secure and stable. This includes 'cookies', and logs of the Internet Protocol (IP) addresses of computers that connect

--- relevant lines ---
We also collect information about visitors to websites. We use statistics to improve and further develop our services. We use the tools Google Analytics, Google Tag Manager, Application Insights, and Matomo to analyze the information collected.
Processing of personal data in relation to your visa application
The Visa Information System (VIS) is a central IT-system for all Schengen-countries. The system contains personal information of persons who apply for a short stay Schengen-visa.
The collection of your personal data required by the standardized Schengen application form, the taking of your photograph and the taking of your fingerprints are mandatory for the examination of your visa application. Failure to provide such data will result in the application being inadmissible.
The legal basis for the collection and processing of your personal data is set out in Regulation (EC) No 767/2008 (VIS Regulation), Regulation (EC) No 810/2009 (Visa Code) and Council Decision 2008/633/JHA, the Norwegian Immigration Act article 83 a., and the General Data Protection Regulation Article 6.1 (c), 6.1 (e), and 9.2 (g).
The data will be shared with the relevant authorities of the Member States [1] and processed by those authorities for the purposes of a decision on your visa application.
The data and data concerning the decision taken on your application or a decision whether to annul, revoke or extend a visa issued will be entered into, and stored in the Visa Information System (VIS) for a maximum period of five years, during which it will be accessible to the visa authorities and the authorities competent for carrying out checks on visas at external borders and within the Member States, immigration and asylum authorities in the Member States for the purposes of verifying whether the conditions for the legal entry into, stay and residence on the territory of the Member States are fulfilled, of identifying persons who do not or who no longer fulfil these conditions, of examining an asylum application and of determining responsibility for such examination. Under certain conditions the data will be also available to designated authorities of the Member States and to Europol for the purpose of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious…
